README.md, before:

# Vaccine-Slot-Info
CLI to check for Covid Vaccine appointments pincode or district wise and get notified on WhatsApp/Telegram.

### Pre-requisites
1. Python 3.6+ , you can install it from  https://www.python.org/downloads/
2. Either Telegram Account
3. Or Twilio Free Trail Account for whatsapp notification 


### Telegram Bot Configuration
1. On Telegram, search @BotFather, click on START button or send `/start` message
2. Send `/newbot` message and follow the instructions to set the name and username for your bot
3. You will receive a token to access HTTP API, this token is your `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`
4. Goto your bot name in Telegram and send `/start` message
5. To get your chatId Open a new tab in browser, enter `https://api.telegram.org/bot<token>/getUpdates`
   You will get the response as
    ```
    "ok":true,"result":[{"update_id":334363465,
    "message":{"message_id":3,"from":{"id":130XXXXXX,"is_bot":false,"first_name":"Vinay",
    "language_code":"en"},
    "chat":{"id":130XXXXXX,"first_name":"Vinay","type":"private"},"date":1620703638,"text":"/start",
    "entities":[{"offset":0,"length":6,"type":"bot_command"}]}}]}
    ```
   `TELEGRAM_BOT_CHAT_ID` will be `130XXXXXX` from the above response
6. Export the following env variables on your terminal
```
export TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=<from step 3 above>
export TELEGRAM_BOT_CHAT_ID=<from step 5 above>
```

### Twilio Configuration for Whatsapp Notification
1. Create a new Twilio Trail Account - www.twilio.com/referral/PfBNJy 
2. Follow the steps here https://www.twilio.com/console/sms/whatsapp/sandbox
3. Export the following env variables on your terminal
```
export TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID="twilio_account_sid" // you will get this here https://www.twilio.com/console
export TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN="twilio_auth_token" // you will get this here https://www.twilio.com/console
export FROM_MOBILE_NUMBER="twilio_number" // you will get this number after following the steps https://www.twilio.com/console/sms/whatsapp/sandbox
export TO_MOBILE_NUMBER="your_mobile_number"
```
Note: Twilio Sandbox lasts for 72 hours after which notification to whatsapp will not come. You will have to again join
the sandbox

<img width="940" alt="Screenshot 2021-05-13 at 11 04 15 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52563354/118082656-326ac580-b3db-11eb-82e6-116481e3de6f.png">


### Installation steps to use `slotinfo` command

1. Download release directly by clicking on slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz here - https://github.com/veenaypatil/Vaccine-Slot-Info/releases/tag/v1.2
```
sudo pip install <downloaded_folder>/slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz
or 
sudo pip3 install <downloaded_folder>/slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz
```
Checkout how to install pip here - https://www.techgeekbuzz.com/how-to-install-python-pip-on-windows-mac-and-linux/

2. Or Clone the code and install
```
python setup.py sdist
sudo pip install dist/slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz
```

### CLI commands provided by this utility
```
  continuously-for-district
  continuously-for-district-next7days
  continuously-for-pincode
  continuously-for-pincode-next7days
  district-wise
  district-wise-next7days
  pincode-wise
  pincode-wise-next7days
  get-district-id
  get-state-id
```

### CLI commands usage
```
1. Get the State ID
slotinfo get-state-id --state_name Maharashtra

2. Get the District ID
slotinfo get-district-id --state_id 21 --district_name Pune

3. Check available appointment slots district wise
slotinfo district-wise --district_id 334 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

4. Check available appointment slots district wise for next 7 days
slotinfo district-wise-next7days --district_id 334 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 2

5. Check available appointment slots pincode wise
slotinfo pincode-wise-next7days -pin 411015 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 45 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

6. Check available appointment slots pincode wise
slotinfo pincode-wise -pin 411015 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 45 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

7. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in a district after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-district --district_id 363 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

8. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in a district for next 7 days after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-district-next7days --district_id 363 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 2

9. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in pin code after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-pincode --pin_code 41105 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

10. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in pin code for next 7 days after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-pincode-next7days --pin_code 411015 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 2
```

To get the help of any command use `--help` option with command name
```
slotinfo continuously-for-district --help
Usage: slotinfo continuously-for-district [OPTIONS]

Options:
  -dId, --district_id TEXT        Provide district Id to check for
                                  appointments  [required]

  -d, --date TEXT                 Date for which appointments are to be
                                  checked  [required]

  -af, --age_filter INTEGER       Filter only 18 plus or 45 plus appointments
  -i, --interval INTEGER          Interval in seconds  [required]
  -n, --notify_on [whatsapp|telegram]
                                  Receive notification on whatsapp/telegram
                                  [required]
  -vt, --vaccine_type [covishield|covaxin]
                                  Filter appointments only by specific vaccine_type(s) 
                                  [not required]

  --help                          Show this message and exit.
```

### Whatsapp Notification Sample
<img width="350" alt="Screenshot 2021-05-09 at 10 01 03 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52563354/117579869-927b1680-b112-11eb-9403-21438d53bc46.png">

### Telegram Notification Sample

<img width="657" alt="Screenshot 2021-05-11 at 11 11 05 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52563354/117764129-9bbacf00-b249-11eb-9609-df53a44ee34d.png">

Commit message:

Instructions for Telegram channel notification

README.md, after:

# Vaccine-Slot-Info
CLI to check for Covid Vaccine appointments pincode or district wise and get notified on WhatsApp/Telegram.

### Pre-requisites
1. Python 3.6+ , you can install it from  https://www.python.org/downloads/
2. Either Telegram Account (Recommended)
3. Or Twilio Free Trail Account for whatsapp notification 


### Telegram Bot Configuration
1. On Telegram, search @BotFather, click on START button or send `/start` message
2. Send `/newbot` message and follow the instructions to set the name and username for your bot
3. You will receive a token to access HTTP API, this token is your `TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN`
4. Goto your bot name in Telegram and send `/start` message
5. To get your chatId Open a new tab in browser, enter `https://api.telegram.org/bot<token>/getUpdates`
   You will get the response as
    ```
    "ok":true,"result":[{"update_id":334363465,
    "message":{"message_id":3,"from":{"id":130XXXXXX,"is_bot":false,"first_name":"Vinay",
    "language_code":"en"},
    "chat":{"id":130XXXXXX,"first_name":"Vinay","type":"private"},"date":1620703638,"text":"/start",
    "entities":[{"offset":0,"length":6,"type":"bot_command"}]}}]}
    ```
   `TELEGRAM_BOT_CHAT_ID` will be `130XXXXXX` from the above response
6. Export the following env variables on your terminal
```
export TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=<from step 3 above>
export TELEGRAM_BOT_CHAT_ID=<from step 5 above>
```
Note: This method will send notification to your bot which will only be visible to you

### Sending message to Channel using Telegram to notify your friends or relatives
1. Create a new channel on Telegram and make custom bot created above as admin
2. Got to https://web.telegram.org/#/im and select the channel created
3. In the web url you will see something like https://web.telegram.org/#/im?p=c115xxxx_1234567890
4. Copy the number before `_` like `c115xxxx` and remove the starting character `c`
5. Prefix `-100` to this number as `-100115xxxx`
6. Export the following variable
```
export TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN=<from step 3 of Telegram Bot Configuration>
export TELEGRAM_BOT_CHAT_ID=-100115xxxx
```
Note: Using this method you will notify all the members of your channel

### Twilio Configuration for Whatsapp Notification
1. Create a new Twilio Trail Account - www.twilio.com/referral/PfBNJy 
2. Follow the steps here https://www.twilio.com/console/sms/whatsapp/sandbox
3. Export the following env variables on your terminal
```
export TWILIO_ACCOUNT_SID="twilio_account_sid" // you will get this here https://www.twilio.com/console
export TWILIO_AUTH_TOKEN="twilio_auth_token" // you will get this here https://www.twilio.com/console
export FROM_MOBILE_NUMBER="twilio_number" // you will get this number after following the steps https://www.twilio.com/console/sms/whatsapp/sandbox
export TO_MOBILE_NUMBER="your_mobile_number"
```
Note: Twilio Sandbox lasts for 72 hours after which notification to whatsapp will not come. You will have to again join
the sandbox

<img width="940" alt="Screenshot 2021-05-13 at 11 04 15 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52563354/118082656-326ac580-b3db-11eb-82e6-116481e3de6f.png">


### Installation steps to use `slotinfo` command

1. Download release directly by clicking on slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz here - https://github.com/veenaypatil/Vaccine-Slot-Info/releases/tag/v1.2
```
sudo pip install <downloaded_folder>/slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz
or 
sudo pip3 install <downloaded_folder>/slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz
```
Checkout how to install pip here - https://www.techgeekbuzz.com/how-to-install-python-pip-on-windows-mac-and-linux/

2. Or Clone the code and install
```
python setup.py sdist
sudo pip install dist/slotinfo-1.2.tar.gz
```

### CLI commands provided by this utility
```
  continuously-for-district
  continuously-for-district-next7days
  continuously-for-pincode
  continuously-for-pincode-next7days
  district-wise
  district-wise-next7days
  pincode-wise
  pincode-wise-next7days
  get-district-id
  get-state-id
```

### CLI commands usage
```
1. Get the State ID
slotinfo get-state-id --state_name Maharashtra

2. Get the District ID
slotinfo get-district-id --state_id 21 --district_name Pune

3. Check available appointment slots district wise
slotinfo district-wise --district_id 334 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

4. Check available appointment slots district wise for next 7 days
slotinfo district-wise-next7days --district_id 334 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 2

5. Check available appointment slots pincode wise
slotinfo pincode-wise-next7days -pin 411015 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 45 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

6. Check available appointment slots pincode wise
slotinfo pincode-wise -pin 411015 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 45 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

7. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in a district after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-district --district_id 363 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

8. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in a district for next 7 days after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-district-next7days --district_id 363 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on telegram --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 2

9. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in pin code after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-pincode --pin_code 41105 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 1

10. Run the cmd continously to check for available appointments in pin code for next 7 days after evey x(seconds) interval
slotinfo continuously-for-pincode-next7days --pin_code 411015 --date 10-05-2021 --age_filter 18 --interval 2 --notify_on whatsapp --vaccine_type covishield --vaccine_type covaxin --dose_number 2
```

Note: `--vaccine_type`, `dose_number` and `age_filter` are optinal fields

To get the help of any command use `--help` option with command name
```
Usage: slotinfo continuously-for-district-next7days [OPTIONS]

  Continuously check for available slots in district for next 7 days after
  every x interval seconds and notify on whatsapp/telegram

Options:
  -dId, --district_id TEXT        Provide district Id to check for
                                  appointments  [required]
  -d, --date TEXT                 Date for which appointments are to be
                                  checked for next 7 days  [required]
  -af, --age_filter [18|45]       Filter only 18 plus or 45 plus appointments
  -i, --interval INTEGER          Interval in seconds  [required]
  -n, --notify_on [whatsapp|telegram]
                                  Receive notification on whatsapp/telegram
                                  [required]
  -vt, --vaccine_type [covishield|covaxin]
                                  Vaccine type for which appointments are to
                                  be checked
  -dn, --dose_number [1|2]        Dose number for which appointments are to be
                                  checked
  --help                          Show this message and exit.
```

### Whatsapp Notification Sample
<img width="350" alt="Screenshot 2021-05-09 at 10 01 03 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52563354/117579869-927b1680-b112-11eb-9403-21438d53bc46.png">

### Telegram Notification Sample

<img width="657" alt="Screenshot 2021-05-11 at 11 11 05 AM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/52563354/117764129-9bbacf00-b249-11eb-9609-df53a44ee34d.png">
